# About Dataset


**Context**

Blueberries are perennial flowering plants with blue or purple berries. They are classified in the section Cyanococcus within the genus Vaccinium. Vaccinium also includes cranberries, bilberries, huckleberries, and Madeira blueberries. Commercial blueberries—both wild (lowbush) and cultivated (highbush)—are all native to North America. The highbush varieties were introduced into Europe during the 1930s.

Blueberries are usually prostrate shrubs that can vary in size from 10 centimeters (4 inches) to 4 meters (13 feet) in height. In the commercial production of blueberries, the species with small, pea-size berries growing on low-level bushes are known as "lowbush blueberries" (synonymous with "wild"), while the species with larger berries growing on taller, cultivated bushes are known as "highbush blueberries". Canada is the leading producer of lowbush blueberries, while the United States produces some 40% of the world s supply of highbush blueberries.

**Content**

"The dataset used for predictive modeling was generated by the Wild Blueberry Pollination Simulation Model, which is an open-source, spatially-explicit computer simulation program that enables exploration of how various factors, including plant spatial arrangement, outcrossing and self-pollination, bee species compositions and weather conditions, in isolation and combination, affect pollination efficiency and yield of the wild blueberry agroecosystem. The simulation model has been validated by the field observation and experimental data collected in Maine USA and Canadian Maritimes during the last 30 years and now is a useful tool for hypothesis testing and theory development for wild blueberry pollination researches."

**Features Unit Description**

Clonesize m2 The average blueberry clone size in the field
Honeybee bees/m2/min Honeybee density in the field
Bumbles bees/m2/min Bumblebee density in the field
Andrena bees/m2/min Andrena bee density in the field
Osmia bees/m2/min Osmia bee density in the field
MaxOfUpperTRange ℃ The highest record of the upper band daily air temperature during the bloom season
MinOfUpperTRange ℃ The lowest record of the upper band daily air temperature
AverageOfUpperTRange ℃ The average of the upper band daily air temperature
MaxOfLowerTRange ℃ The highest record of the lower band daily air temperature
MinOfLowerTRange ℃ The lowest record of the lower band daily air temperature
AverageOfLowerTRange ℃ The average of the lower band daily air temperature
RainingDays Day The total number of days during the bloom season, each of which has precipitation larger than zero
AverageRainingDays Day The average of raining days of the entire bloom season

**Acknowledgements**

Qu, Hongchun; Obsie, Efrem; Drummond, Frank (2020), “Data for: Wild blueberry yield prediction using a combination of computer simulation and machine learning algorithms”, Mendeley Data, V1, doi: 10.17632/p5hvjzsvn8.1

Dataset is outsourced from here.
